#Vision for the project – "shareable checklists"
##in the course web development with PHP (1DV608)
The idea for the project came from a need I have felt from time to time when you like to remember things like for example what you owe or other owes to you, mainly closest friends or family. Even if you write it down on a paper you tend to lose it or spread it out on different notes, making it hard to oversee and keep updated (if actually paid back yet or not). You also would like to share it with the ones who are concerned without having to make too much work. Finding a good application for it that everyone can and will use is also not the easiest. There can also be other things you would like a general shareable space for with your friends or family, like just making notes to each other or discussing in a group without having to use a specific application.

The general idea behind the project is to create this shareable space with simple but very functional items like checklists. The checklists should be a bit more advanced than maybe the average checklist. They should have possibilities to archive its finished items (that can be viewable after if wanted) and the info of the items should be divided down to multiple fields like title, description and a field to set if it is important or not. You should also be able to see some kind of a progress bar, for how many items or percent you have finished (i.e. that are checked). 

The maybe most important part of this project is not be the checklists themselves, but rather the shareable parts of them and that the code architecture should be built in consideration of a bigger project that can handle many more types of entries than just checklists. For example in the future adding another entry like a Gallery type, that use the same kind of shareable method as checklists, should be made easy so that you don’t have to invent the same “wheel” again.

What the shareable parts mean is that it should be possible to register user groups that you can add other users to. Then you can share any entry (like a checklist) with the user group you’ve created or become member of. Doing this should enable all users in the user group to view the same entry (checklist) and also edit it, checking/unchecking checklist items and adding/removing items etc. It should be possible to see which user that has created a specific item in a checklist.

Moreover the design of the web page should be done in a way that it is easy to navigate, easy to understand what different buttons do by for example just the colors of it. The layout should be fully responsive, so that it is as easy to use on a small smart phone, tablet or full desktop screen.

Security is also of importance, where you need to be logged in to do most actions and see most of the pages. If you don’t share an entry with a user group no-one else should be able to access it. If you share it with a user group only you and those in that group should be able to see and edit the entry etc.

By Ola Franzén
October 2015